Hi, my name's Dave Andrews. Today I'm going
to show you how to create a simple budget
in Excel 2003. Let's open up Excel 2003. Clicking
on the start button, go to all programs. Microsoft
Office, let's open Excel 2003. Now what we're
going to so is begin by create some headers.
Let's say in A1 we're going to say item name,
that's going to be our budget item. Let's
expand that a little bit. B1 is going to be
budget amount. C will be amount spent. And
we're going to call D difference. So let's
make these bold. And we're going to put in
some items. Let's say mortgage, food and gas.
Now mortgage we know how much that's going
to be, let's say 1500 dollars. And for food,
oh let's give a budget of 600 dollars. For
gas let's say 700. Now on the amount spent
let's put in the amount that we spent this
month. In it you would create this at the
beginning of the month and kind of update
it as the month goes along. The mortgage we
know we're going to spend 1500 dollars. The
food let's say we actually spent 450. And
gas maybe we took a trip this month, let's
say we spent 850. Now we're going to have
Excel calculate the difference so we'll know
what we're over budget in and what we're under
budget in. To do so click in that first cell
type an equal sign, click on your budget amount
for that row type a minus and then click on
the amount spent. So it's going to subtract
the amount spent from your budget amount.
Say enter and you get your answer. Let's copy
that cell and past it into the other cells.
As you can see it's been relative in that
it is actually totaling the row that goes
along with where we copied it. We can see
what we're under budget in and what we're
over budget in. It's that easy to create a
budget. My name is Dave Andrews and I've just
showed you how to create a simple budget using
Excel 2003.